Best Practices
Best Practices
Overview
Version: Stable-3.5
On this page
Best Practices
These best practices are written by experienced database engineers. Designing for efficiency does more than improve query speed, it decreases costs by reducing storage, CPU, and object storage (e.g., S3) API costs.
General table design
​
Three guides covering:
Partitioning
Clustering
Bucketing
Learn about:
The differences between partitioning and bucketing
When to partition
How to choose an efficient sort key
Choosing between hash and random bucketing
Primary key tables
​
The
Primary Key
table uses a new storage engine designed by StarRocks. Its main advantage lies in supporting real-time data updates while ensuring efficient performance for complex ad-hoc queries. In real-time business analytics, decision-making can benefit from Primary Key tables, which use the newest data to analyze results in real-time, mitigating data latency in data analysis.
Learn about:
Choosing the type of primary key index
Choosing the primary key
Monitoring and managing memory use
Tuning
Query Tuning
​
Query tuning
is essential for achieving high performance and reliability in StarRocks. This directory brings together practical guides, reference materials, and actionable recipes to help you analyze, diagnose, and optimize query performance at every stage—from writing SQL to interpreting execution details.
Effective query tuning in StarRocks typically follows a top-down process:
Identify the Problem
Collect and Analyze Execution Information
Locate the Root Cause
Apply Tuning Strategies
Validate and Iterate
Whether you're a DBA, developer, or data engineer, these resources will help you:
Diagnose and resolve slow or resource-intensive queries
Understand optimizer choices and execution details
Apply best practices and advanced tuning strategies
Start with the
overview
, dive into the references as needed, and use the recipes and tips to solve real-world performance challenges in StarRocks.
What did you think of this doc?
Send your review!
Edit this page